feat( Serverless lambda layer): Log ingestion solution for ADOT layer (#18302)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/serverless-function-monitoring/aws-lambda-monitoring/opentelemetry/otel-adot-log-ingestion-serverless.mdx

---

> title: Logs for AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry Lambda functions

Reviewer: For title can we use similar approach as 
'Forward Lambda functions Logs with New Relic and OpenTelemetry'

metaDescription: How to instrument your serverless applications on AWS Lambda with ADOT solution in New Relic.
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---
You can monitor AWS serverless application that sends OpenTelemetry log events data from AWS CloudWatch to the New Relic UI.
You can configure the ADOT Lambda layer collector to successfully forward your OpenTelemetry application logs with all of your service and application context.

> This includes ensuring that logs contain metadata such as service name, version, environment, and any other relevant attributes that can aid in observability and troubleshooting.

Reviewer: Please remove the word "environment" as it is not for infra monitoring

<Steps>

<Step>

Open the [AWS Serverless Application Repository](https://serverlessrepo.aws.amazon.com/applications) in your browser, and complete the following procedure.

1. Under <DNT>**Applications**</DNT>, type `newrelic` in the search bar, and click the <DNT>**Show apps that create custom IAM roles or resource policies**</DNT> check-box to find `newrelic-aws-otel-log-ingestion`. 
2. Open the `newrelic-aws-otel-log-ingestion` details and click <DNT>**Deploy**</DNT>.
3. In the function's <DNT>**Configure**</DNT> menu, go to <DNT>**Environment Variables**</DNT> and configure log forwarding using the following environment variables: 

<table>
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
            Key
          </th>
    
          <th>
            Description
          </th>
        </tr>
      </thead>
    
      <tbody>

        <tr>
          <td>

>             `NR_OTEL_LOGGING_ENABLED`

Reviewer: It is not Optional although as Required and by default value is True.

Reviewer: Also, please use the latest formatting using 4 column.

---

> title: Forward your  Lambda function logs with Newrelic and OpenTelelemtry 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Forward your  Lambda function logs with New Relic and OpenTelelemtry 
```

metaDescription: How to instrument your serverless applications on AWS Lambda with ADOT solution in New Relic.
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

> You can monitor AWS serverless application that sends OpenTelemetry log events data from AWS CloudWatch to the New Relic UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can monitor any AWS serverless application that sends OpenTelemetry log events data from AWS CloudWatch in the New Relic UI.
```

2. Open the `newrelic-aws-otel-log-ingestion` details and click <DNT>**Deploy**</DNT>.
3. In the function's <DNT>**Configure**</DNT> menu, go to <DNT>**Environment Variables**</DNT> and configure log forwarding using the following environment variables: 

<table>
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
            Key
          </th>
          <th>
          Default value          
          </th>
          <th>
          Options
          </th>
          <th>
            Description
          </th>
        </tr>
      </thead>
    
      <tbody>

        <tr>
          <td>
            `NR_OTEL_LOGGING_ENABLED`
          </td>
          <td>
            true
          </td>   
          <td>   
            `true`,`false`.
          </td>
          <td>
          Determines if logs are forwarded to the New Relic UI
          </td>

        </tr>

        <tr>
          <td>
            `DEBUG_LOGGING_ENABLED`
          </td>
          <td>
          false
          </td>
          <td>

>           `true`,`false`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          `true`,`false`
```

---

> title: OTEL log ingestion solution for ADOT lambda layer collector

Reviewer 2: I think we should explode the acronyms in docs titles, even if it leads to long titles.

So, OTEL should be OpenTelemetry and ADOT should be... whatever ADOT is :)

Also, I'm pretty sure Lambda is always capitalized.

If you need to go shorter, you might try: "OpenTelemetry logs for [ADOT]"

Where ADOT is whatever those words stand for.

Reviewer 2: If so, another alternative might be "Logs for AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry Lambda functions"

metaDescription: How to instrument your serverless applications on AWS Lambda with ADOT solution in New Relic.
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

> You can now monitor AWS serverless application that sends OTEL log events data from CloudWatch Logs to the New Relic UI.

Reviewer 2: On first use, always use the exploded version of the acronym (acronyms silo information and it make it harder for people to read and understand if they don't already know what the acronym is)

For example, OTEL -> OpenTelemetry

Later uses of acronyms are fine. 

We should always use OpenTelemetry and not OTEL also.

Reviewer 2: Also, drop the "now" in "You can now monitor..."

Docs are meant to feel sort of timeless. That "now" is going to become outdated real fast

Reviewer 2: Also, I think Lambda is always capitalized

> You can configure the ADOT lambda layer collector to successfully forward OTEL application logs with all necessary service and application context. 

Reviewer 2: It's a subtle thing but I think we can make a slight tweak to make this read as a bit friendlier:

"You can configure the ADOT Lambda layer collector to successfully forward your OTEL application logs with all of your service and application context."

This includes ensuring that logs contain metadata such as service name, version, environment, and any other relevant attributes that can aid in observability and troubleshooting.

> ## Pre-requisites

Reviewer 2: Your headers need anchor tags: https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/style-guide/structure/levels-headings/#h2_identify

Reviewer 2: Also, I'm pretty sure it's "Prerequisites"

> * Make sure you have a <InlinePopover type="licenseKey" />.

Reviewer 2: Is this all they need? Do they also need OpenTelemetry and some kind of AWS account?

Author: Yes, we need AWS Account id

## Procedure

> The following setup shows one approach for configuring environment variables to your AWS Lambda application. You can also configure them from the [Functions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-envvars.html) page.

Reviewer 2: Make it clear that you're linking someone out to an external resource (which we usually try to avoid). For example:

"You can also configure them on the AWS functions page. For more information, [see the Amazon Lambda environment variables doc](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-envvars.html)."

We don't like linking to external resources, because we have no control over the content in it or even how long the link will stay valid.

<Steps>

<Step>

Open the [AWS Serverless Application Repository](https://serverlessrepo.aws.amazon.com/applications) in your browser, and complete the following procedure.

> 1. Under **Applications**, type `newrelic` in the search bar, and click the <DNT>**Show apps that create custom IAM roles or resource policies**</DNT> check-box to find `newrelic-aws-otel-log-ingestion`. 

Reviewer 2: **Applications** should have the DNT tag too

> 1. Under **Applications**, type `newrelic` in the search bar, and click the <DNT>**Show apps that create custom IAM roles or resource policies**</DNT> check-box to find `newrelic-aws-otel-log-ingestion`. 

Reviewer 2: Your numbering is showing all 1s

2. Open the `newrelic-aws-otel-log-ingestion` details and click <DNT>**Deploy**</DNT>.

3. In the function's <DNT>**Configure**</DNT> menu, go to <DNT>**Environment Variables**</DNT> and configure log forwarding using the following environment variables: 

<table>
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
            Key
          </th>
    
          <th>
            Description
          </th>
        </tr>
      </thead>
    
      <tbody>

        <tr>
          <td>
            `OTEL_LOGGING_ENABLED`
          </td>
    
          <td>

>             A boolean to determine if you want to output debug messages in the CloudWatch console. **Optional**.

Reviewer 2: Boolean

    
            To turn on debug logs, set this to `true`. Default is `false`.
          </td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
          <td>
            `DEBUG_LOGGING_ENABLED`
          </td>
    
          <td>
            A boolean to determine if you want to output debug messages in the CloudWatch console. **Optional**.
    
            To turn on debug logs, set this to `true`. Default is `false`.
          </td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr>
          <td>
            `LICENSE_KEY`
          </td>
    
          <td>
            <InlinePopover type="licenseKey" /> is used for sending data to New Relic. **Required.**
          </td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr>
          <td>
            `LOGGING_ENABLED`
          </td>
    
          <td>

>             Set this flag to `false`.

Reviewer 2: Why?

          </td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr>
          <td>
            `NR_TAGS`
          </td>
    
          <td>
            Specify tags to be added to all log events. **Optional**.
    
            Each tag is composed of a colon-delimited key and value. Multiple key-value pairs are semicolon-delimited; for example, `env:prod;team:myTeam`.
          </td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr>
          <td>
            `NR_LAMBDA_LOG_GROUP_PREFIX`
          </td>
    
          <td>

>             If you've configured your Lambda log group to use a different path than `/aws/lambda`, you can specify it with this variable. **Optional**.

Reviewer 2: There are ways that we can simplify language to make it easier to read. For example:

"If you've configured your Lambda log group *with* a different path than `/aws/lambda`, you can *use* this variable."

This is a useful resource :) https://www.plainlanguage.gov/guidelines/words/use-simple-words-phrases/

          </td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr>
          <td>
            `NR_VPC_LOG_GROUP_PREFIX`
          </td>
    
          <td>
            If you've configured your VPC log group to use a different path than `/aws/vpc/flow-log`, you can specify it with this variable. **Optional**.
          </td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>

</Step>

<Step> 
Acknowledge that the app creates custom IAM roles, and then click <DNT>**Deploy**</DNT>.

 </Step>

 <Step>
 
Once the process in the step above completes, create a Lambda trigger to link your Lambda function to CloudWatch logs. 

> To get your logs streaming to New Relic UI, attach a trigger to the Lambda:

Reviewer 2: Is this still the AWS UI? Make that really clear here.

1. From the left side menu, select <DNT>**Functions**</DNT>.
2. Find and select the previously created `newrelic-log-ingestion` function.
3. Under <DNT>**Triggers**</DNT>, click <DNT>**Add Triggers**</DNT>, and select <DNT>**CloudWatch Logs**</DNT> from the dropdown.
4. Select the the appropriate <DNT>**Log group**</DNT> for your application.
5. Enter a name for your filter.
6. Optional: Enter a [filter pattern](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/FilterAndPatternSyntax.html).
7. Check the <DNT>**Enable trigger**</DNT> checkbox, then click <DNT>**Add**</DNT> to create the trigger.

<Callout variant="caution">
On the ingestion function, ensure that you set up a trigger, not a log subscription. Setting up a subscription in the Lambda console can lead to a cascade of logs generated and forwarded to New Relic.

</Callout>

<CollapserGroup>
    <Collapser
        id="config-endpoints"
        title="Optional: Configure different logging endpoints"
    >

> You can set a custom logging endpoint if needed, this will allow you for example to use our FedRAMP compliant endpoints.

Reviewer 2: Why would I need this? Why would I want to do this?
